---
id: erc721
title: ERC721 Deposit and Withdraw Guide
sidebar_label: ERC721
description: "Deposit and withdraw ERC721 tokens on the Polygon network."
keywords:
  - docs
  - matic
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

Check out the latest [Matic.js Documentation on ERC20](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc721/).

This tutorial uses the Polygon Testnet ( Mumbai ) which is mapped to the Goerli Network to demonstrate the asset transfer to and from the two blockchains. An **important thing to be noted** while following this tutorial is that you should always use a Proxy address whenever it is available. For example, the `RootChainManagerProxy` address has to be used for interaction instead of the `RootChainManager` address. The **PoS contract addresses, ABI, Test Token Addresses**, and other deployment details of the PoS bridge contracts can be found [here](/docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/pos/deployment).

**Mapping your assets** is necessary to integrate the PoS bridge on your application. You can submit a mapping request [here](/docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/submit-mapping-request). But for the purpose of this tutorial, we have already deployed the **Test tokens** and mapped them on the PoS bridge. You may need it for trying out the tutorial on your own. You can request the desired Asset from the [faucet](https://faucet.polygon.technology/). If the test tokens are unavailable on the faucet, do reach us on [discord](https://discord.com/invite/0xPolygon).

In the upcoming tutorial, every step will be explained in detail along with a few code snippets. However, you can always refer to this [repository](https://github.com/maticnetwork/matic.js/tree/v2.0.2/examples/POS-client) which will have all the **example source code** that can help you to integrate and understand the working of PoS bridge.

## High Level Flow

Deposit ERC721 -

1. **_Approve_** **_ERC721Predicate_** contract to spend the tokens that have to be deposited.
2. Make **_depositFor_** call on **_RootChainManager_**.

Withdraw ERC721 -

1. **_Burn_** tokens on Polygon chain.
2. Call the `exit` function on `RootChainManager` to submit proof of burn transaction. This call can be made after the checkpoint is submitted for the block containing the burn transaction.

## Step Details
### Approve

[Approve Method](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc721/approve/) is a normal ERC721 approval so that `ERC721Predicate` can call `transferFrom` function. Polygon PoS client exposes the **_approve_** method to make this call.

```jsx
const execute = async () => {
  const client = await getPOSClient();
  const erc721RootToken = posClient.erc721(<root token address>,true);
  const approveResult = await erc721RootToken.approve(<token id>);
  const txHash = await approveResult.getTransactionHash();
  const txReceipt = await approveResult.getReceipt();
}
 ```

### Deposit

[Deposit method](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc721/deposit/) can be done by calling `depositFor` on `RootChainManager` contract. Note that the token needs to be mapped and approved for transfer beforehand. Once the tokens are transferred, the deposit proceeds using the State Sync mechanism. Polygon PoS client exposes `depositERC721ForUser` method to make this call.

```jsx
const execute = async () => {
  const client = await getPOSClient();
  const erc721RootToken = posClient.erc721(<root token address>, true);
  const result = await erc721RootToken.deposit(<token id>, <user address>);
  const txHash = await result.getTransactionHash();
  const txReceipt = await result.getReceipt();
}
```

:::note 
Deposits from Ethereum to Polygon happen using the **State Sync** mechanism and this takes about 22-30 minutes. After waiting for this time interval, it is recommended to check the balance using the web3.js/matic.js library or using Metamask. The explorer will show the balance only if at least one asset transfer has happened on the child chain. This [<ins>link</ins>](docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/pos/deposit-withdraw-event-pos/) explains how to track deposit events.
:::

### Burn WithdrawStart

User can call **_withdraw_** function of **_ChildToken_** contract. This function should burn the tokens. Polygon POS client exposes [withdrawStart method](https://maticnetwork.github.io/matic.js/docs/pos/erc721/withdraw-start/) to make this call.

```jsx
const execute = async () => {
  const client = await getPOSClient();
  const erc721Token = posClient.erc721(<child token address>);
  const result = await erc721Token.withdrawStart(<token id>);
  const txHash = await result.getTransactionHash();
  const txReceipt = await result.getReceipt();
}
```

Store the transaction hash for this call and use it while generating burn proof.

### Exit

Once the checkpoint has been submitted for the block containing the burn transaction, the user should call the `exit()` function of `RootChainManager` contract and submit the proof of burn. Upon submitting valid proof tokens are transferred to the user. Polygon PoS client exposes the  `withdrawExit` method to make this call. This function can be called only after the checkpoint is included in the main chain. The checkpoint inclusion can be tracked by following [this guide](/docs/develop/ethereum-polygon/pos/deposit-withdraw-event-pos.md#checkpoint-events).

```jsx
const execute = async () => {
  const client = await getPOSClient();
  const erc721RootToken = posClient.erc721(<root token address>, true);
  const result = await erc721RootToken.withdrawExit(<burn tx hash>);
  const txHash = await result.getTransactionHash();
  const txReceipt = await result.getReceipt();
}
```
