---
id: ether
title: Ether Deposit and Withdraw Guide
sidebar_label: Ether
description:  "Available functions for Ether contracts."
keywords:
  - docs
  - matic
  - deposit
  - withdraw
  - ether
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

## High Level Flow

Depositing Ether -

- Make the depositEtherFor call on the **RootChainManager** and send the ether asset.

Withdrawing Ether -

1. **_Burn_** tokens on Polygon chain.
2. Call **_exit_** function on **_RootChainManager_** to submit proof of burn transaction. This call can be made **_after checkpoint_** is submitted for the block containing burn transaction.

## Step Details

### Instantiate the contracts
```js
const mainWeb3 = new Web3(mainProvider)
const maticWeb3 = new Web3(maticProvider)
const rootChainManagerContract = new mainWeb3.eth.Contract(rootChainManagerABI, rootChainManagerAddress)
const childTokenContract = new maticWeb3(childTokenABI, childTokenAddress)
```

### Deposit
Call the `depositEtherFor` function of `RootChainManager` contract. This function takes 1 argument - `userAddress`, which is the address of the user that will receive the deposit on the Polygon chain. The amount of ether to be deposited has to be sent as the value of the transaction.

```js
await rootChainManagerContract.methods
  .depositEtherFor(userAddress)
  .send({ from: userAddress, value: amount })
```

### Burn
Since Ether is an ERC20 token on the Polygon chain, its withdrawal process is the same as ERC20 withdrawal. Tokens can be burned by calling the `withdraw` function on the child token contract. This function takes a single argument, `amount` indicating the number of tokens to be burned. Proof of this burn needs to be submitted in the exit step. So store the transaction hash.
```js
const burnTx = await childTokenContract.methods
  .withdraw(amount)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
const burnTxHash = burnTx.transactionHash
```

### Exit
The exit function on `RootChainManager` contract has to be called to unlock and receive the tokens back from `EtherPredicate`. This function takes a single bytes argument that proves the burn transaction. Wait for the checkpoint containing the burn transaction to be submitted before calling this function. The Proof is generated by RLP-encoding the following fields:

1. headerNumber - Checkpoint header block number containing the burn tx
2. blockProof - Proof that the block header (in the child chain) is a leaf in the submitted merkle root
3. blockNumber - Block number containing the burn tx on child chain
4. blockTime - Burn tx block time
5. txRoot - Transactions root of block
6. receiptRoot - Receipts root of block
7. receipt - Receipt of the burn transaction
8. receiptProof - Merkle proof of the burn receipt
9. branchMask - 32 bits denoting the path of receipt in merkle patricia tree
10. receiptLogIndex - Log Index to read from the receipt

Generating proof manually can be tricky so it is advisable to use Polygon Edge. If you want to send the transaction manually, you can pass **_encodeAbi_** as **_true_** in the options object to get raw calldata.

```js
const exitCalldata = await maticPOSClient
  .exitERC20(burnTxHash, { from, encodeAbi: true })
```

Send this calldata to **_RootChainManager_**.
```js
await mainWeb3.eth.sendTransaction({
  from: userAddress,
  to: rootChainManagerAddress,
  data: exitCalldata.data
})
```
