---
id: erc1155
title: ER1155 Deposit and Withdraw Guide
sidebar_label: ERC1155
description: Build your next blockchain app on Matic.
keywords:
  - docs
  - matic
image: https://matic.network/banners/matic-network-16x9.png
---

## Quick summary

This section of the docs deal with depositing and withdrawing ERC1155 tokens. Just like the Using SDK section of the docs, the bare skeleton of this page is very much the same as depositing and withdrawing ETH. What stands as a difference are the contracts that are instantiated, and the difference in the methods used. In this section, we'll learn how to **instantiate the contracts**, **deposit**, **burn**, and **exit**. Let's go.


## High Level Flow

### Depositing ERC1155

- Provide approval for the **ERC1155PredicateProxy** contract to spend the tokens that will be deposited
- Go on to deposit the tokens by making the **depositFor** call on **RootChainManager**.

### Withdrawing ERC1155

- **Burn** tokens on Polygon chain.
- Call the **exit** function and make sure to submit the transaction proof of burn hash. This call is to be made after the **checkpoint** is submitted for the block containing burn transaction 


## Details

Let's see what the steps to using the contracts look like

### Instantiate the contracts
```js
const mainWeb3 = new Web3(mainProvider)
const maticWeb3 = new Web3(maticProvider)
const rootTokenContract = new mainWeb3.eth.Contract(rootTokenABI, rootTokenAddress)
const rootChainManagerContract = new mainWeb3.eth.Contract(rootChainManagerABI, rootChainManagerAddress)
const childTokenContract = new maticWeb3(childTokenABI, childTokenAddress)
```

### Approve
Provide approval for the ERC1155Predicate to spend tokens by calling the **setApprovalForAll** method of token contract. This function takes two arguments **operator** and **approved**. **Operator** is the address that is being approved to spend user's tokens. **Approved** is a boolean indicating if tokens can be spent.

This is what the **setApprovalForAll** method looks like 
```js
await rootTokenContract.methods
  .setApprovalForAll(erc1155Predicate, true)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
```

### Deposit
Deposit is initiated by calling **depositFor** on the **RootChainManager** contract. As always, the token needs to be mapped and approved for transfer before hand. This function takes 3 arguments: **user**, **rootToken** and **depositData**. **User** is the address of user that will receive the deposit on the Polygon chain, **rootToken** is the address of token on the main chain while **depositData** is the abi encoded list of ids, list of tokens and bytes data.

```js
const depositData = mainWeb3.eth.abi.encodeParameters(
  ['uint256[]', 'uint256[]', 'bytes'],
  idList, amountList, data
)
await rootChainManagerContract.methods
  .depositFor(userAddress, rootToken, depositData)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
```

### Burn

Burning an ERC1155 token involves destroying the token on the Polygon chain by calling the **withdrawSingle** or **withdrawBatch** function on the child token contract and making the proof of burn available in the **exit** step. The **withdrawBatch** takes 2 arguments, list of ids and list of amounts.

```js
// For single burn
const burnTx = await childTokenContract.methods
  .withdrawSingle(id, amount)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
const burnTxHash = burnTx.transactionHash
```
```js
// For batch burn
const burnTx = await childTokenContract.methods
  .withdrawBatch(idList, amountList)
  .send({ from: userAddress })
const burnTxHash = burnTx.transactionHash
```

### Exit

Exit function **on RootChainManager contract** has to be called to unlock and receive the tokens back **from ERC1155PredicateProxy** contract. This function takes a single bytes argument that proves the burn transaction. Wait for the checkpoint containing burn transaction to be submitted before calling this function. The Proof is generated by RLP encoding the following fields -

- headerNumber - Checkpoint header block number containing the burn transaction
- blockProof - Proof that the block header (in the child chain) is a leaf in the submitted merkle root
- blockNumber - Block number containing the burn transaction on child chain
- blockTime - Burn transaction block time
- txRoot - Transactions root of block
- receiptRoot - Receipts root of block
- receipt - Receipt of the burn transaction
- receiptProof - Merkle proof of the burn receipt
- branchMask - 32 bits denoting the path of receipt in merkle patricia tree
- receiptLogIndex - Log Index to read from the receipt

Generating proof manually can be tricky so it is advisable to use the matic SDK. If you want to send the transaction manually, you can pass **encodeAbi** as **true** in the options object to get raw calldata.

```js
const exitCalldata = await maticPOSClient
  .exitSingleERC1155(burnTxHash, { from, encodeAbi: true })
```

Send this calldata to **RootChainManager**.

```js
await mainWeb3.eth.sendTransaction({
  from: userAddress,
  to: rootChainManagerAddress,
  data: exitCalldata.data
})
```
